
Aim:
Capturing and analyzing network packets using Wireshark.

Objectives:
i) Identification of live network
ii) Capture packets
iii) Analyze captured packets
iv) Apply display filters

Steps:

1. Open Wireshark application.

2. Select the active network interface (Wi-Fi/Ethernet) to identify the live network.

3. Click on "Start Capturing Packets".

4. Allow packets to capture for a few seconds.

5. Click on "Stop" to stop packet capture.

6. Analyze captured packets by selecting individual packets and observing details such as:
   - Source IP
   - Destination IP
   - Protocol
   - Packet length

7. Apply display filters to analyze specific packets.

Display Filters:

1. Display packets based on specific IP address: 
find IP from network settings and put that
   ip.addr == 192.0.2.1

2. Display packets from a specific source IP: 
nslookup google.com (type in cmd and get that IP)
   ip.src == 192.168.10.28

3. Display packets to a specific destination IP:
   ip.dst == 192.168.10.28

4. Display HTTP protocol packets:
   http

5. Display HTTP request packets:
   http.request

6. Display TCP protocol packets:
   tcp

7. Display successful HTTP responses:
   http.response.code == 200

8. Display packets using port 80 or 443:
   tcp.port == 80 || udp.port == 443

9. Display packets containing keyword "facebook":
   tcp contains "facebook/google"



Result:
Packets were successfully captured and analyzed using Wireshark. Various filters were applied to extract relevant network information.

Conclusion:
Wireshark helps in monitoring and analyzing network traffic. Display filters allow efficient extraction of specific data, which is useful in network analysis and digital forensics. 

###Case study
Q)Analyze the packets provided in lab and solve the question using wireshark

1. What web server software issued bygo.microsoft.com? What web server software issued by www.snopes.com
Analysis- The domain name be found from host header so we will set host header so we will set host header column where we will see all domain name. 

Step 1: Select any HTTP request and expand the hypertext Tranfer Protocol Right click on host and select apply as column. 

Step 2: Then it will create column for host and it will show www.snopes.com in that column . right click on it follow > TCP Stream.

2. About what cell phone problem is the client concerned?
Analysis – Client talking about cell so we search for cell keyword in whole packets. We will use regular express for searching the cell keyword. Apply frame matches “(?)cell”.
In the search frame type frame matches “microsoft”
Step 1: Type filter  frame matches "(?) cell”
 
3. a) According to http, what data will TCP show?
Analysis - As we did in the last challenge, we will apply a regular express filter for the Google keyword. Apply frame matched “http”.
Filter: frame matches “(?) http”
 
b) According to Zillow, what instrument willryan learn to play?
Filter: frame matches"(?)zillow"
Analysis - 
Step 1: Type the following filter, then it will show only one packet select it and expand the TCP > right click on it. Protocol preferences > tick “allow subdissector to reassemble TCP streams.
 
Step 2: Then again right click on TCP > Export objects > HTTP and save it new folder.
 
4. How may web servers are running Microsoft/Apache?
Step 1: filter http.response
 
Step 2: Same right click http apply as column, it will show which ever is running Microsoft / apache and all. Then type filter http.server contains "Microsoft".
 
Step 3: Right click on any http > Endpoint
 
Step 4: Select ipv4.
 
5. What hosts (IP addresses) think that jokes are more entertaining when they are explained?
Apply filter frame matches "(?)jokes".
Analysis - 
Step 1: filter > frame matches "(?)jokes”.then check the column of server , it will show the output as “jokes are better explained”.
